Skip to main content
UF Information Technology
School Logo Link
MENU
University of Florida Information Technology

Enabling Teaching, learning, research and service with state-of-the-art information technology

Search Services

View Services

Explore our comprehensive range of IT services.

 

Our Portfolio

List of active projects managed by UFIT.

 

Visit Help Desk

Get assistance from our friendly support team.

Submit a Ticket

Report any issues quickly and efficiently.

AI Services

UFIT is committed to supporting the University of Florida’s AI initiatives. We offer a variety of services (UFIT AI Services) that can help you enhance your research, projects, and courses with the power of AI.

 

Student Resources
Learn the tools available for students that will help you before and after your arrival on campus
Faculty Resources
Browse the most commonly used IT and instructional resources on campus
Staff Resources
Browse some of the tools and services available to university employees
Alerts
View Alert History
UFIT News & Announcements
The UFIT Help Desk offers 24/7 technical support for campus IT services, including Canvas, eduroam configuration, GatorLink account management, and more.
Get help
UF unveiled NaviGator AI, higher ed’s first comprehensive, self-service AI platform, giving students, faculty, and staff access to safe and broad AI services. The versatility of NaviGator AI allows users to create AI-generated images, summarize reports, review data trends, and complete various AI-assisted workflow tasks.
Launch now
UFIT is implementing changes on Tuesday, Feb. 4, to the default sharing settings to improve the security of shared files and links across Microsoft 365 products, including OneDrive, SharePoint, Outlook, and Teams.
Learn more
Kudos to UFIT

"Thank you so much, UFIT Video Productions team, for all your support with my dissertation video! Your assistance was truly vital to this success. " —Alexandria Carey, Clinical Research Assistant Director, UF Health

Join UFIT!

Whether you are just beginning your career or are an established professional, we have positions that will challenge you, enable your skills development, and surround you with a great community.

See Opportunities
Visit Jobs.ufl.edu
University of Florida Information Technology
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Instagram Icon
Youtube Icon
LinkedIn Icon
Contact

University of Florida
Gainesville, FL 32611

 

Website Feedback

 

helpdesk@ufl.edu

Resources
ONE.UF
Webmail
myUFL
e-Learning
Directory
Campus
Weather
Campus Map
Student Tours
Academic Calendar
Events
Website
Website Listing
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Regulations
UF Public Records
© 2025 University of Florida Accessibility Privacy Statement Acceptable Use Policy Text Only