Skip to main content
UFIT Artificial Intelligence
School Logo Link
MENU

NaviGator Toolkit



UFIT offers a set of AI tools to allow custom and SaaS applications to utilize large language models such as GPT, Llama, Gemini, and Claude. Additionally, image generation models like DALL-E and speech to text models like Whisper are also available.

Access NaviGator Toolkit
NaviGator Toolkit Guide

NaviGator Toolkit provides every UF student, faculty, and staff the capability to generate API keys and leverage AI models in their current applications. Each UF user has a $5 monthly budget that they can spend on locally deployed models such as Llama, Mixtral, Gemma, Codestral, Stable Diffusion, and Mistral. Additionally, researchers can be onboarded as teams with custom budgets to leverage cloud models. Researchers are encouraged to submit a request via the UFIT Help Portal.

Security, Privacy, Data Classification Usage Guidelines

UF provides this service to allow you to analyze your documents using different language models while keeping those documents secure within UF servers and contracted vendors.  At this time, UF permits the usage of restricted or sensitive data with models deployed on UF HiPerGator. The usage of restricted or sensitive data is not permitted with cloud models. Users only have access to their own datasets and conversation history. When interacting with models hosted by vendors, your messages and subsets of your documents will be sent to a LLM instance provided by Microsoft, Amazon, or Google.  All data handled in this fashion is covered by our existing agreements with Microsoft. Amazon, and Google.  None of this data contributes to training the large language model. 

 

Available AI Models 
Language Models and Hosting
UF HiPerGator	Microsoft Azure	Google	Amazon Web Services

llama-3.1-8b-instruct
nim-llama-3.1-8b-instruct
llama-3.1-70b-instruct
mistral-7b-instruct
nim-mistral-7b-instruct
mixtral-8x7b-instruct
mistral-large
codestral-22b
Stable Diffusion (image generator)
flux.1-dev (image generator)
flux.1-schnell (image generator)
whisper-large-v3 (speech to text)
nomic-embed-text-v1.5
sfr-embedding-mistral
	
o1-preview
o1-mini
gpt-4o
gpt-4o-mini
gpt-4-turbo
gpt-3.5-turbo
DALL-E-3 (image generator)
text-embedding-3-large
text-embedding-3-small
	
gemini-1.5-flash
gemini-1.5-pro
	
command-r-plus
command-r
claude-3.5-sonnet
claude-3.5-haiku
claude-3-haiku
claude-3-sonnet
claude-3-opus
 
Generate a personal API key in NaviGator Toolkit


Each UF student, faculty, and staff can generate their own API keys. All keys have a cumulative budget of $5 per month. The API keys allow access to all local models hosted on UF HiPerGator. By virtue of being a UF student, faculty, or staff, users are able to login and create a key using the steps below:

Login to https://api.ai.it.ufl.edu/ui with your GatorLink Credentials * If you are off-campus, you have to use the UF Gatorlink VPN Service.
One the main page, make sure the team navigator-toolkit is selected (step 1). That’s the default team for all UF students, faculty, and staff. Once the navigator-toolkit team is selected, click on Create New Key (step 2)


Under the Create Key modal window, type a name for your key (step 1) and choose which models do you want the key to have access to (step 2). You can choose one or multiple models:


Once you select the models and have a name for your key, click on Create Key


A new modal window will pop up with your API key value. Make sure you copy the key by clicking on Copy API Key and save it somewhere safe. You will not be able to view the key again


Once you copy the key, click on the X button at the top right of each modal window to exit the key creation process. You should now see your key listed under your keys.


Personal keys have a maximum budget of $5 per month. Each month, the budget resets back to $5. There are no rollover credits for unconsumed credits. Each personal key is valid for 1 year.

Department Logo
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Instagram Icon
Youtube Icon
LinkedIn Icon
Resources
ONE.UF
Webmail
myUFL
e-Learning
Directory
Campus
Weather
Campus Map
Student Tours
Academic Calendar
Events
Website
Website Listing
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Regulations
UF Public Records
© 2025 University of Florida Accessibility Privacy Statement Acceptable Use Policy Text Only