Skip to main content
UF Information Technology
School Logo Link
MENU
Home
Services
For Faculty
Survey Tools
Qualtrics
QUALTRICS
Overview

Qualtrics is a powerful tool for making online surveys used in academic research. It offers various question options, interactive features, and media to boost response rates. Users can access pre-made surveys or create their own. The collected data can be analyzed with graphs and charts in real-time. Reports can be exported in formats like SPSS, Excel, PowerPoint, Word, or PDF for presentations and research.

To use Qualtrics, log in with your GatorLink credentials. You can then create, deliver, collect, and analyze surveys while following survey research ethics.

UF Qualtrics allows restricted data collection without a risk assessment for certain data types. Check if your data needs an assessment by visiting the link  UF Data Guide.

Useful Links
Login to Qualtrics
UFIT Qualtrics Training
Qualtrics Terms of Use
Research Services

As a longtime partner with Qualtrics, the University of Florida also has access to their Research Services team. We encourage you to utilize this resource as their team has experts in many aspects of research including sampling, translations, methodology, etc. Faculty and students wishing to take advantage of these services can reach out to UF's Qualtrics Research Services contact, Aidan Foster (afoster@qualtrics.com). Many UF faculty and students have benefited from streamlining the research process utilizing the resources as our partnership with Qualtrics has continued to grow. Aidan will be notified upon completion and start the feasibility and pricing process; he will then reach out when the quote is complete.

Other Research Services

REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture) is a secure, Web-based application designed to support traditional case report form data capture for your research studies: https://www.ctsi.ufl.edu/research/study-design-and-analysis/redcap/

 

Qualtrics FAQ
Are there any tutorials or documentation on Qualtrics?

Qualtrics hosts a comprehensive set of video tutorials and FAQs on their Academic Support Page and in their 24/7 Support Center. Their support page also has a link to the Qualtrics Community, where you can have questions answered by your peers. Additionally, the UF College of Veterinary Medicine has developed an example survey for you to view and fill out.

Am I included in the UF Qualtrics license?
How many participants can I email for each survey?
How do I migrate an existing Qualtrics account?
How do I move a survey from SurveyMonkey into Qualtrics?
Can I collect PII, FERPA, or HIPAA information?
Someone shares a UF Qualtrics survey with me, but I do not see it. What should I do?
How do I access Qualtrics On-Demand Training?
Contact Us

For questions on how to use or implement Qualtrics for your surveys contact:

ufit-training@ufl.edu 

For administrative issues or questions (for example, how to
access, survey ownership, transfer of survey ownership etc) contact:

learning-support@ufl.edu
(352) 392-HELP (4357)

 

University of Florida Information Technology
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Instagram Icon
Youtube Icon
LinkedIn Icon
Contact

University of Florida
Gainesville, FL 32611

 

Website Feedback

 

helpdesk@ufl.edu

Resources
ONE.UF
Webmail
myUFL
e-Learning
Directory
Campus
Weather
Campus Map
Student Tours
Academic Calendar
Events
Website
Website Listing
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Regulations
UF Public Records
© 2025 University of Florida Accessibility Privacy Statement Acceptable Use Policy Text Only