Skip to main content
UFIT Artificial Intelligence
School Logo Link
MENU

NaviGator Chat



NaviGator AI allows you to use different Large Language Models (LLMs) with your own dataset. You can use AI to discover trends and patterns, look for insights, and produce reports based on your data.

Launch NaviGator Chat
 
NaviGator Chat Getting Started

Security, Privacy, Data Classification Usage Guidelines

UF provides this service to allow you to analyze your documents using different language models while keeping those documents secure within UF servers and contracted vendors.  At this time, UF does not permit the usage of restricted or sensitive data with this service. Users only have access to their own datasets and conversation history. When interacting with the language models hosted by vendors, your messages and subsets of your documents will be sent to a LLM instance provided by Microsoft or Google.  All data handled in this fashion is covered by our existing agreements with Microsoft and Google.  None of this data contributes to training the large language model. No data is retained after deletion.  If you have uploaded a file by accident, deleting the file or conversation will completely remove it from the system. 

Available Language Models 
Language Models and Hosting
UF HiPerGator	Microsoft Azure	Google	Amazon Web Services

llama-3.1-8b-instruct
nim-llama-3.1-8b-instruct
llama-3.1-70b-instruct
mistral-7b-instruct
nim-mistral-7b-instruct
mixtral-8x7b-instruct
mistral-large
codestral-22b
Stable Diffusion (image generator)
	
gpt-4o
gpt-4o-mini
gpt-4-turbo
gpt-3.5-turbo
DALL-E-3 (image generator)
	
gemini-1.5-flash
gemini-1.5-pro
	
command-r-plus
command-r
claude-3.5-sonnet
claude-3.5-haiku
claude-3-haiku
claude-3-sonnet
claude-3-opus
Language model preset parameters

Parameter 

	

Description 




Model 

	

Select the model like gpt-3.5-turbo that will be used for generating responses 




Custom Name 

	

Optionally provide a custom name for your preset. This is the name that will be shown in the UI when using it 




Custom Instructions 

	

Define instructions or guidelines that will be displayed before each prompt to guide the user in providing input 




Temperature 

	

Adjust this parameter to control the randomness of the model’s output. A higher value makes the output more random, while a lower value makes it more focused and deterministic 




Top P 

	

Control the nucleus sampling parameter to influence the diversity of generated text. Lower values make text more focused while higher values increase diversity 




Frequency Penalty 

	

Use this setting to penalize frequently occurring tokens and promote diversity in responses 




Presence Penalty 

	

Adjust this parameter to penalize new tokens that are introduced into responses, controlling repetition and promoting consistency 

Enable Image Generation in NaviGator Chat
On the NaviGator toolbar, click “NaviGator AI” and select “Plugins”. 





On the new menu item “None selected”, click “Plugin Store”. 





Within the Plugin store, click “Install” for DALL-E-3 and/or Stable Diffusion to install image generators.





After installation, select the image generator plug-in you wish to use from the Plugin store dropdown menu.





You can start generating images by typing your prompts! 


 

NaviGator Chat User Guide

Comprehensive user guide on features and usage for UF NaviGator Chat.

 

Department Logo
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Instagram Icon
Youtube Icon
LinkedIn Icon
Resources
ONE.UF
Webmail
myUFL
e-Learning
Directory
Campus
Weather
Campus Map
Student Tours
Academic Calendar
Events
Website
Website Listing
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Regulations
UF Public Records
© 2025 University of Florida Accessibility Privacy Statement Acceptable Use Policy Text Only