Skip to main content
UF Information Technology
School Logo Link
MENU
Home
About UFIT
Student Technology Fee Grants
STUDENT TECHNOLOGY FEE GRANTS
Student Technology Fee Academic Innovation Grants
Criteria for Selection

The Student Technology Fee Grant funds projects proposed by students, staff, and faculty through a competitive process each year. Any member in the UF community who has an idea for a proposal is encouraged to research its viability with the IT units which would support the project, then submit a concept paper.

The grant criteria this year:

the focus is on educational innovation utilizing technology
the project includes pedagogy and if proposed use in or by courses it includes the involvement of course instructors utilizing the technology include finding ways to make an existing technology available to a larger number of individuals or
applying technology in a new way to further teaching and learning.

Please read the complete criteria.

Students, staff, and faculty are encouraged to take their ideas and partner with a college or an administrative unit to submit a concept paper. A partnership is necessary for continuity over the life of the project and for sustainability.

In this process, the Advisory Committee reviews Proposals. The committee acts in an advisory capacity to the CIO, who makes the final decision on projects to be funded and implemented.

Please review the materials on this website including Submitting a Proposal and the Scoring Criteria.

A Student Technology Fee Grant was implemented for all UF students beginning in Fall 2009 and is used to enhance instructional technology services and infrastructure for students and faculty at the University of Florida.

Important Dates

Important Dates for the 2025 Technology Funding Cycle

Event

	

Date




Deadline for UFIT Administration Review

	

March 21, 2025




Deadline for submission of Administratively Approved Proposal

	

March 28, 2025




Notification of funded proposals

	

June 13, 2025

University of Florida Information Technology
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Instagram Icon
Youtube Icon
LinkedIn Icon
Contact

University of Florida
Gainesville, FL 32611

 

Website Feedback

 

helpdesk@ufl.edu

Resources
ONE.UF
Webmail
myUFL
e-Learning
Directory
Campus
Weather
Campus Map
Student Tours
Academic Calendar
Events
Website
Website Listing
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Regulations
UF Public Records
© 2025 University of Florida Accessibility Privacy Statement Acceptable Use Policy Text Only