Skip to main content
UF Information Technology
School Logo Link
MENU

IT SERVICES

Staff Resources



As a university employee, you have access to a world of IT support and resources. Below are the most commonly used IT and instructional resources on campus. For more information on all available IT services, feel free to browse our service catalog.

Menu
Getting Connected

Gatorlink account
A GatorLink username and password are required for access to most University of Florida information systems. GatorLink accounts are provided to individuals with active affiliations with the university, as recorded in the UF Identity Registry.

ONE.UF
ONE.UF is a self​-service portal for faculty who interact with student information.

WiFi
Eduroam is the University of Florida’s secure campus wireless network. If you need assistance in the configuration of a user's Gatorlink device to connect to Eduroam, please visit UF’s Wireless Onboarding portal.

VPN
The Gatorlink VPN service provides secure remote access to the University of Florida network and makes it appear as if your computer were physically attached to the campus network. By using the Gatorlink VPN client, you may access resources on the UF network that are not typically available over an Internet path.

Research Computing
UFIT Research Computing provides comprehensive training, consulting, advanced software, and proposal support for researchers who use HiPerGator, the University of Florida supercomputer.

Security
UFIT Security offers a variety of services with the goal of creating and ensuring a more secure network experience for the University of Florida.

Collaboration Services
The University of Florida offers a variety of cloud collaboration services including the Google G Suite, Office 365, and Dropbox.

Software Licensing
Software Licensing Services (SLS) provides software licensing, distribution, and management services for departments at the University of Florida.

Zoom
Zoom is an easy-to-use video conferencing service available to all UF faculty, staff,  and students that allows for meetings of up to 300 participants. Zoom is also available in Canvas for instructors to use in their courses.

Gator Mail
Gator Mail is the University of Florida’s resource for all of your email needs. Gator Mail can help you get connected, change or edit your password, or report a phishing attempt.

University of Florida Information Technology
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Instagram Icon
Youtube Icon
LinkedIn Icon
Contact

University of Florida
Gainesville, FL 32611

 

Website Feedback

 

helpdesk@ufl.edu

Resources
ONE.UF
Webmail
myUFL
e-Learning
Directory
Campus
Weather
Campus Map
Student Tours
Academic Calendar
Events
Website
Website Listing
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Regulations
UF Public Records
© 2025 University of Florida Accessibility Privacy Statement Acceptable Use Policy Text Only