Skip to main content
UF Information Technology
School Logo Link
MENU

IT SERVICES

Faculty Resources



As a faculty member, you have access to a world of IT support and resources. Below are the most commonly used IT and instructional resources on campus. For more information on all available IT services, feel free to browse our service catalog.

UF Voting Application
Menu
Getting Connected

Gatorlink account
A GatorLink username and password is required for access to most University of Florida information systems. GatorLink accounts are provided to individuals with active affiliations with the university, as recorded in the UF Identity Registry.

ONE.UF
ONE.UF is a self​-service portal for faculty who interact with student information.

WiFi
Eduroam is the University of Florida’s secure campus wireless network. If you need assistance in the configuration of a user's Gatorlink device to connect to Eduroam, please visit UF’s Wireless Onboarding portal.

VPN
The Gatorlink VPN service provides secure remote access to the University of Florida network and makes it appear as if your computer were physically attached to the campus network. By using the Gatorlink VPN client, you may access resources on the UF network that are not typically available over an Internet path.

Research Computing
UFIT Research Computing provides comprehensive training, consulting, advanced software, and proposal support for researchers who use HiPerGator, the University of Florida supercomputer.

Security
UFIT Security offers a variety of services with the goal of creating and ensuring a more secure network experience for the University of Florida.

Collaboration Services
The University of Florida offers a variety of cloud collaboration services including the Google G Suite, Office 365, and Dropbox.

Software Licensing
Software Licensing Services (SLS) provides software licensing, distribution, and management services for departments at the University of Florida.

Zoom
Zoom is an easy-to-use video conferencing service available to all UF faculty, staff, and students that allows for meetings of up to 300 participants. Zoom is also available in Canvas for instructors to use in their courses.

Gator Mail
Gator Mail is the University of Florida’s resource for all of your email needs. Gator Mail can help you get connected, change or edit your password, or report a phishing attempt.

Facilitating Learning and Collaboration

Canvas
Canvas is the University of Florida’s web-based learning management system, or LMS. It allows institutions to manage digital learning, instructors to create and present online learning materials and assess student learning, and students to engage in courses and receive feedback about skill development and learning achievement. For more information on Canvas, visit Getting Started with eLearning and explore what other Canvas learning tools are available.

Center for Instructional Technology and Training
Whether you need to develop a full course or program, review and revise an existing course, flip all or part of your course, including video studio and field production services, the CITT is here to help. We provide instructional design assistance for fully online, flipped, hybrid, and traditional face-to-face courses. Additionally, pedagogically-focused workshops, technical trainings, and online tutorials are available to instructors, administrators, and staff at the University of Florida, including graduate students and post-doctoral associates.

UFApps
UFApps leverages a number of cutting edge technologies to provide UF students and faculty access to Windows based software applications from any computing device–laptops, tablets, desktops, and smartphones–from any location, at any time.

Academic Technology Labs
AT Labs operates Windows and Macintosh computers that are available to University of Florida students, faculty, and staff. These computers are connected to the Internet and other computer networks and can be used for general-purpose computing.

Video and Collaboration Services
UFIT Video & Collaboration Services provides the latest video and data collaboration technology to the University of Florida. Their goal is to connect you to your colleagues and content in the most efficient way possible. With services such as video production and streaming, they make presentations viewable to more people, lectures available to more students, and information instantly accessible to the Web-wide audience. Transcending borders, their videoconferencing service allows users at multiple locations to meet in virtual conference rooms.

Proctoring Services
With the expansion of online courses, the focus of ensuring the authentication of the students taking these courses and especially taking online assessments is of paramount concern. The University standard for online assessments and proctoring is that any assessment equivalent to 15% or more of a student’s final course grade should utilize online authentication and proctoring solutions.

TurnItIn
Turnitin is an online anti-plagiarism service which compares student submissions to millions of websites and papers submitted for exact matches. Instructors can verify if students properly cited their sources. The reports are integrated into the Assignments tool in e-Learning, or Turnitin can be used as a stand-alone product, offering more tools such as grading rubrics.

Qualtrics
Qualtrics is a robust, sophisticated service for creating and delivering web-based surveys. With over 100 question types available and the ability to create interactive questions and engage survey-takers with rich media, it becomes possible to increase response rates. Users can pull questions from professionally designed surveys as well as create their own library of questions, surveys, messages, and media.

LinkedIn Learning
The Linkedin Learning platform includes all Lynda.com course content plus an additional 6,000 online skill-building education options. Furthermore, LinkedIn Learning provides personalized course recommendations based on your geographic location, job title, and interests, and the opportunity to have badges and certificate information earned via Lynda/Linkedin Learning appear on your Linkedin professional profile. The enhanced online learning platform remains free to all students, faculty, and staff with valid GatorLink credentials.

Fast Path Solutions
Fast Path Solutions (FPS) is a comprehensive list of pre-assessed software and computing environments. Use this page to search by name or by category. If you are working with non-restricted data, you may use FPS without additional review by UF administrative, compliance, and risk management offices.

Other Campus Resources

Disability Resource Center
The Disability Resource Center’s role at the University of Florida is to ensure access for students with disabilities as outlined by the Americans with Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

Center for Teaching Excellence
UF’s Center for Teaching Excellence promotes student success through transformative learning environments. We invite instructors and graduate students to connect with us, explore innovative strategies, and share best practices that support quality and inclusive teaching for the benefit of all students.

Libraries
The George A. Smathers Libraries provide faculty a diverse range of library resources and services. Off-campus access is available from home or from anywhere in the world while connected to the VPN.

Recommended Workshops/Resources for Faculty
Best Practices for Teaching Online

The Best Practices for Teaching Online certificate of completion provides participants the opportunity to explore pedagogically sound course design principles that promote student success in the online learning environment. This series will address the needs of diverse learners through student-centered activities, while also focusing on key issues such as accessibility, usability, and engagement.


eLearning @ UF: Build and Design

Learn how to create and update an online course on UF’s e-learning system. In this hands-on training, certified trainers guide participants in creating an engaging online course. Trainers guide the application of course design best practices and management strategies to help instructors deliver online courses that are efficient and student-friendly.

 

eLearning @ UF: Facilitate and Engage

Are you new to e-learning at UF or wondering how to facilitate a pre-created course? In this training, participants will actively engage with the e-learning interface from the instructor's perspective and explore the powerful tools for providing effective feedback and assessing student progress.

 

Teaching for Inclusivity and Accessibility

The Teaching for Inclusivity and Accessibility certificate of completion helps instructors reach a diverse group of students and consider issues of identity, equity, and access. It focuses on relevant and reflective activities that allow participants to implement changes in their teaching practice.

University of Florida Information Technology
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Instagram Icon
Youtube Icon
LinkedIn Icon
Contact

University of Florida
Gainesville, FL 32611

 

Website Feedback

 

helpdesk@ufl.edu

Resources
ONE.UF
Webmail
myUFL
e-Learning
Directory
Campus
Weather
Campus Map
Student Tours
Academic Calendar
Events
Website
Website Listing
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Regulations
UF Public Records
© 2025 University of Florida Accessibility Privacy Statement Acceptable Use Policy Text Only